[Music]
furthermore King David said to all the
assembly my son Solomon whom alone God
has chosen is young and inexperienced
and the work is great because the temple
is not for man but for the Lord God now
for the house of my god
I have prepared with all my might gold
for things to be made of gold silver for
things of silver bronze for things of
bronze iron for things of iron wood for
things of wood onyx stones stones to be
set glistening stones of various colors
all kinds of precious stones and marble
slabs in abundance moreover because I
have set my affection on the house of my
god
I have given to the house of my god over
and above all that I have prepared for
the holy house my own special treasure
of gold and silver
three thousand talents of gold of the
gold of Ophir and seven thousand talents
of refined silver to overlay the walls
of the houses the gold for things of
gold and the silver for things of silver
and for all kinds of work to be done by
the hands of craftsmen who then is
willing to consecrate himself this day
to the Lord then the leaders of the
father's houses
leaders of the tribes of Israel the
captains of thousands and of hundreds
with the officers over the Kings work
offered willingly
they gave for the work of the house of
God five thousand talents and ten
thousand Derrick's of gold ten thousand
talents of silver eighteen thousand
talents of bronze and one hundred
thousand talents of iron and whoever had
precious stones gave them to the
Treasury of the house of the Lord into
the hands of Jehiel
the gursha night then the people
rejoiced for they had offered willingly
because with a loyal heart they had
offered willingly to the Lord and King
David also rejoiced greatly therefore
David blessed the Lord before all the
assembly blessed are You Lord God of
Israel
our Father for ever and ever
yours no Lord is the greatness the power
and the glory the victory and the
majesty
for all that is in heaven and in earth
is yours yours is the kingdom Oh Lord
and you are exalted as head over all
both riches and honor come from you and
you reign over all in your hand is power
and might in your hand it is to make
great and to give strength to all now
therefore our God we thank you and
praise your glorious name
but who am i and who are my people that
we should be able to offer so willingly
as this for all things come from you and
of your own we have given you four we
are aliens and pilgrims before you as
we're all our fathers our days on earth
are as a shadow and without hope Oh Lord
our God all this abundance that we have
prepared to build you a house for your
Holy Name is from your hand and is all
your own I know also my god that you
test the heart and have pleasure in
uprightness as for me in the a
brightness of my heart I have willingly
offered all these things and now with
joy I have seen your people who are
present here to offer willingly to you O
Lord God of Abraham Isaac and Israel our
fathers keep this forever in the intent
of the thoughts of the heart of your
people and fix their heart toward you
and give my son Solomon a loyal heart to
keep your Commandments and your
testimonies and your statutes to do all
these things and to build the temple for
which I have made provision then David
said to all the assembly now bless the
Lord your God so holy assembly blessed
the Lord God of their fathers and bow
their heads and prostrating themselves
before the Lord and the King and they
made sacrifices to the Lord and offered
burnt offerings to the Lord on the next
day a thousand Bulls a thousand grams a
thousand lambs with their drink
offerings and sacrifices in abundance
for all Israel so they ate and drank
before the Lord with great gladness on
that day and they made Solomon the son
of David King the second time and
anointed him before the Lord to be the
leader and Zadok to be priests then
Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord as
king instead of David his father and
prospered
and all Israel obeyed him all the
leaders and the mighty man and also all
the sons of King David submitted
themselves to King Solomon so the Lord
exalted Solomon exceedingly in the sight
of all Israel and bestowed on him such
royal majesty has had not been on any
King before him in israel thus david the
son of jesse reigned over all israel and
the period that he reigned over israel
was forty years seven years he reigned
in hebron and 33 years he reigned in
jerusalem so he died in a good old age
full of days and riches and honor and
Solomon his son reigned in his place
now the acts of King David first and
last indeed they are written in the book
of Samuel the seer in the book of nathan
the prophet and in the book of gad the
seer with all his reign and his might
and the events that happened to him to
Israel and to all the kingdoms of the
lands